---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

# Exploring Patterns of Environmental Justice in Los Angeles County

## Description

With an estimated 9.8 million residents in 2023, Los Angeles County is
the most populous county in California and the entire United States
(Data USA, n.d.). Los Angeles County is also racially diverse, with
approximately 2.48 million White (non-Hispanic) residents, 2.26 million
Hispanic residents, 1.4 million Asian residents, and 743,000 Black
residents (Data USA, n.d.). The city has a rich history and is
culturally diverse; however, marginalized communities continue to face
disproportionate environmental, social, and economic burdens.

Environmental injustices experienced by marginalized communities are
interconnected with patterns of reduced biodiversity in urban
environments. The Home Ownersâ€™ Loan Corporation (HOLC) created a
neighborhood ranking system to guide mortgage lending decisions,
classifying areas from A (green) to D (red) based on perceived
neighborhood safety (Oliver, 2025). This system was later used to deny
home loans and other financial opportunities to residents in lower-rated
neighborhoods, which were often predominantly inhabited by people of
color (Oliver, 2025). This practice is known as "redlining", defined as
the process of refusing financial support to a community based on
discriminatory practices (Merriam-Webster Legal, n.d.). Reduced
biodiversity in redlined neighborhoods is also a concern, as these areas
tend to face increased heating from impervious cover and reduced
greenery (Hoffman et al., 2020).

The purpose of this analysis is to examine how historical redlining in
Los Angeles has influenced communities in terms of environmental and
socioeconomic conditions. Additionally, the analysis investigates how
biodiversity, measured by recorded bird observations, is affected in
historically redlined neighborhoods.

This repository contains:

-   `README`: Description of repository, brief summary of purpose of
    analysis, and data references.

-   `data`: Contains EJScreen geodatabase and associated metadata,
    biodiversity observations from the Global Biodiversity Information
    Facility, and HOLC redlining data from

-   

## Data Description and Access

-   EJ
-   HOLC Grade (where from, access, keep it short)
-   Birds (where from, access)

## Author Contributors

This repository and analysis was compiled by Vedika Shirtekar. All
datasets and assignment instructions were provided by The Bren School of
Environmental Science and Management, UC Santa Barbara for the MEDS
program.

## Citations
